[Reference Architectures] Add RAD for Serverless ETI pipelines (#13967)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/reference-architecture/diagrams/serverless/serverless-etl.md

---
title: Serverless ETL pipelines
pcx_content_type: reference-architecture-diagram
weight: 1
meta:
  title: "Serverless ETL pipelines"
---

# Serverless ETL pipelines

## Introduction

Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) pipelines are a cornerstone in the realm of data engineering, facilitating the seamless flow of data from its raw state to a structured, usable format. ETL pipelines are instrumental in the data processing journey, particularly in scenarios where data needs to be collected, cleansed, and transformed before being loaded into a target destination.

> The process begins with extraction, where data is gathered from various sources such as databases, files, or streams. This raw data is often disparate and unstructured, necessitating the next step: transformation. During transformation, the data undergoes a series of operations to standardize formats, clean inconsistencies, and enrich with additional context or calculations. This phase is critical for ensuring data quality and consistency, as well as aligning it with the requirements of downstream applications and analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process begins with extraction, where data is gathered from various sources like databases, files, or streams. This raw data is often disparate and unstructured, necessitating the next step: transformation. During transformation, the data undergoes a series of operations to standardize formats, clean inconsistencies, and enrich with additional context or calculations. This phase is critical for ensuring data quality and consistency, as well as aligning it with the requirements of downstream applications and analytics.
```

> Finally, the transformed data is loaded into a destination, which could be a data warehouse, database, or any other storage solution. The loading phase involves efficiently moving the processed data to its intended destination, where it can be readily accessed and utilized for various purposes such as reporting, analysis, or feeding into machine learning models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the transformed data is loaded into a destination, which could be a data warehouse, database, or any other storage solution. The loading phase involves efficiently moving the processed data to its intended destination, where it can be readily accessed and used for various purposes like reporting, analysis, or feeding into machine learning models.
```

ETL pipelines play a pivotal role in data-driven decision-making processes across industries, enabling organizations to derive insights and value from their data assets. By automating and streamlining the journey from raw data to actionable insights, ETL pipelines empower businesses to make informed decisions, optimize processes, and gain competitive advantages in today's data-driven landscape.

Examples of ETL pipelines in action include scenarios like extracting sales data from multiple retail stores, transforming it to a standardized format, and loading it into a centralized data warehouse for analysis and reporting purposes. Similarly, ETL pipelines are utilized in data migration projects, where legacy data needs to be migrated to modern systems while ensuring data integrity and consistency throughout the process.

> Cloudflare allows for the deployment of fully serverless ETL pipelines, which can reduce complexity, time to production and overall cost. The following diagrams demonstrate different methods of how Cloudflare can be used in common ETL pipeline deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare allows for the deployment of fully serverless ETL pipelines, which can reduce complexity, time to production, and overall cost. The following diagrams demonstrate different methods of how Cloudflare can be used in common ETL pipeline deployments.
```
